Automation Part 2 (#23723)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/docs-next/docs/guides/automation/asset-sensors.md

---
title: Scheduling pipelines across projects and jobs with Asset Sensors
sidebar_label: Scheduling pipelines across projects and jobs
sidebar_position: 30
---

Asset sensors in Dagster provide a powerful mechanism for monitoring asset materializations and triggering downstream computations or notifications based on those events.

> There are many use cases for asset sensors, however the most common is to trigger a job when an asset is materialized in a different job or code location, or to provide custom logic to determine when to trigger a run following an asset materialization.

Reviewer: This is a mouthful - let's break it up a bit:

```suggestion
There are many use cases for asset sensors, but the most common are:

- Trigger a job when an asset is materialized in a different job or code location, or
- Providing custom logic to determine when to trigger a run following an asset materialization
```

> ### Cross-job and cross-code location dependencies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Cross-job and cross-code location dependencies
```

Can't have an H3 without an H2 before it.

Asset Sensors enable dependencies across different jobs and even different code locations. This flexibility allows for more modular and decoupled workflows.

```mermaid
graph LR;

AssetToWatch --> AssetSensor;
AssetSensor --> Job;
Job --> Asset1;
Job --> Asset2;

subgraph CodeLocationA
    AssetToWatch
end

subgraph CodeLocationB
    AssetSensor
    Job
    Asset1
    Asset2
end

```

Here's a minimal example of an asset sensor that triggers a job when an asset is materialized. The `daily_sales_data` asset is in the same code location for this example, but the same pattern can be applied to assets in different code locations.

<CodeExample filePath="guides/automation/simple-asset-sensor-example.py" language="python" title="Simple Asset Sensor Example" />

### Custom evaluation logic

> The evaluation function of an asset sensor can be customized to include custom logic for determining when to trigger a run. This allows for fine-grained control over the conditions under which downstream jobs are executed.

Reviewer: Nit - `... asset sensor can be customized to include custom logic...`

Can we change up the word choice here so we don't have two variations of `custom` in the same sentence?
